---
permalink: /etfa25/
year: 2025
slug: etfa25
---

# SECPPS 2025/3 (ETFA 2025, Sep 9-12, 2025)

Our workshop series will have an appearance as Special Session at [ETFA 2025](https://etfa2025.ieee-ies.org/special_sessions/ss8/index.html), the 30th IEEE International Conference on
Emerging Technologies and Factory Automation from September 09-12, 2025.

## Call for Papers

With the emergence of Cyber-Physical Production Systems (CPPSs), systems engineers are currently facing a dramatic increase in the complexity of developing and operating systems. In particular, software plays an increasingly important role in the effective and efficient operation of CPPSs. Despite the tremendous progress in software engineering approaches and technologies, these approaches and techniques do not seem to reach industry. More comprehensive and systematic views on all aspects of systems and their development process are required. The 3rd Edition of the Special Session on Software Engineering for Cyber-Physical Production Systems (SECPPS) aims to discuss challenges in adopting state-of-the-art software engineering tools and techniques to CPPSs and highlight new approaches and methods for the design of software for production systems. The following list of topics is of interest for this special session. However, we also invite submissions on related topics, i.e., this list is by no means exhaustive. If in doubt, feel free to ask the organizers.

## Topics
- Software engineering improvements for and transfer of best practices to CPPSs (e.g., agile methods)
- Deployment, operation, evolution, and management of CPPS software (e.g., DevOps)
- Product Lines and Variability Management in CPPS engineering
- Software modeling and languages for CPPSs (e.g., model-driven engineering)
- Interdisciplinary collaboration in the engineering and operation of CPPS software
- Software engineering education for CPPS engineers
- Security, resilience, and sustainability of CPPS software by design
- Usability of software development environments for CPPS engineering
- Software Methods and Techniques for explainable and trustworthy AI in CPPS engineering

## Aim 

This Special Session aims at bringing together professionals from industry and academia to share cutting-edge concepts, recent developments, research results, and practical achievements in in the area of software engineering for factory automation.

## Conference format

The conference will comprise multi-track sessions for regular papers, to present significant and novel research results with a prospect for a tangible impact on the research area and potential implementations, as well as work-in-progress (WiP) and industry practice sessions.

## Important Dates

Please be kindly referred to the [official ETFA website](https://etfa2025.ieee-ies.org/for_authors/index.html#important-dates) for the current dates and detailed author instructions.

### Regular and Special Session Papers
- April 18: Submission deadline
- May 23: Acceptance notification
- July 4: Deadline for final manuscripts

### Work-in-progress/Industry Practice Papers
- May 30: Submission deadline
- June 20: Acceptance notification
- July 4: Deadline for final manuscripts